# Veryfying and Validating the Business Processes and Functional Models

Before we move on to structural (Chapter 5) and behavioral (Chapter 6) modeling, we need to verify and validate the current set of functional models to ensure that they faithfully represent the business processes under consideration. This includes testing the fidelity of each model; for example, we must be sure that the activity diagram(s), use‐case descriptions, and use‐case diagrams all describe the same functional requirements. Before we describe the specific tests to consider, we describe walkthroughs, a manual approach that supports verifying and validating the evolving models.24

## Verification and Validation through Walkthroughs

A walkthrough is essentially a peer review of a product. In the case of the functional models, a walkthrough is a review of the different models and diagrams created during functional modeling. This review typically is completed by a team whose members come from the development team and the client. The purpose of a walkthrough is to thoroughly test the fidelity of the functional models to the functional requirements and to ensure that the models are consistent. That is, a walkthrough uncovers errors or faults in the evolving specification. However, a walkthrough does not correct errors—it simply identifies them. Error correction is to be accomplished by the team after the walkthrough is completed.

Walkthroughs are very interactive. As the presenter walks through the representation, members of the walkthrough team should ask questions regarding the representation. For example, if the presenter is walking through an activity diagram, another member of the team could ask why certain activities or objects were not included. The actual process of simply presenting the representation to a new set of eyes can uncover obvious misunderstandings and omissions. In many cases, the representation creator can get lost in the proverbial trees and not see the forest.25 In fact, many times the act of walking through the representation causes a presenter to see the error himself or herself. For psychological reasons, hearing the representation helps the analyst to see the representation more completely.26 Therefore, the representation creators should regularly do a walkthrough of the models themselves by reading the representations out loud to themselves, regardless of how they think it might make them look.

There are specified roles that different members of the walkthrough team can play. The first is the presenter role. This should be played by the person who is primarily responsible for the specific representation being reviewed. This individual presents the representation to the walkthrough team. The second role is recorder, or scribe. The recorder should be a member of the analysis team. This individual carefully takes the minutes of the meeting by recording all significant events that occur during the walkthrough. In particular, all errors that are uncovered must be documented so that the analysis team can address them. Another important role is to have someone who raises issues regarding maintenance of the representation. Yourdon refers to this individual as a maintenance oracle.27 Owing to the emphasis on reusability in object‐oriented development, this role becomes particularly crucial. Finally, someone must be responsible for calling, setting up, and running the walkthrough meetings.

For a walkthrough to be successful, the members of the walkthrough team must be fully prepared. All materials to be reviewed must be distributed with sufficient time for the team members to review them before the actual meeting. All team members should be expected to mark up the representations so that during the walkthrough meeting, all relevant issues can be discussed. Otherwise, the walkthrough will be inefficient and ineffective. During the actual meeting, as the presenter is walking through the representation, the team members should point out any potential errors or misunderstandings. In many cases, the errors and misunderstandings are caused by invalid assumptions that would not be uncovered without the walkthrough.

One potential danger of walkthroughs is when management decides that the results of uncovering errors in the representation are a reflection of an analyst's capability. This must be avoided at all costs. Otherwise, the underlying purpose of the walkthrough—to improve the fidelity of the representation—will be thwarted. Depending on the organization, it may be necessary to omit management from the walkthrough process. If not, the walkthrough process could break down into a slugfest to make some team members to look good by destroying the presenter. To say the least, this is obviously counterproductive.

## Functional Model Verification and Validation

We have suggested three different representations for the functional model: activity diagrams, use‐case descriptions, and use‐case diagrams. In this section, we describe a set of rules to ensure that these three representations are consistent among themselves.

First, when comparing an activity diagram to a use‐case description, there should be at least one event recorded in the normal flow of events, subflows, or alternative/exceptional flows of the use‐case description for each activity or action that is included in an activity diagram, and each event should be associated with an activity or action. For example, in Figure 4‐4, there is an activity labeled Get Patient Information that is associated with the first two events contained in the normal flow of events of the use‐case description shown in Figure 4‐13.

Second, all objects portrayed as an object node in an activity diagram must be mentioned in an event in the normal flow of events, subflows, or alternative/exceptional flows of the use‐case description. For example, the activity diagram in Figure 4‐4 portrays an Appt object, and the use‐case description refers to a new appointment and changing or canceling an existing appointment.

Third, sequential order of the events in a use‐case description should occur in the same sequential order of the activities contained in an activity diagram. For example, in Figures 4‐4 and 4‐13, the events associated with the Get Patient Information activity (events 1 and 2) should occur before the events associated with the Make Payment Arrangements activity (event 4).

Fourth, when comparing a use‐case description to a use‐case diagram, there must be one and only one use‐case description for each use case, and vice versa. For example, Figure 4‐13 portrays the use‐case description of the Make Old Patient Appt use case. However, the use‐case diagram shown in Figure 4‐4, the activity diagram shown in Figure 4‐8, and the use‐case description given in Figure 4‐13 are inconsistent with each other. In this case, the use‐case diagram implies that the Make Payment Arrangements use case is optional regardless of whether the patient is a new or old patient. However, when we review the activity diagram, we see that it is an optional activity for old patients, but a required activity for a new patient. Therefore, only one of the diagrams is correct. In this instance, the use‐case diagram needs to be corrected. The new corrected use‐case diagram is shown in Figure 4‐21.

Fifth, all actors listed in a use‐case description must be portrayed on the use‐case diagram. Each actor must have an association link that connects it to the use case and must be listed with the association relationships in the use‐case description. For example, the Old Patient actor is listed in the use‐case description of the Make Old Patient Appt use case (see Figure 4‐13), it is listed with the association relationships in the Make Old Patient Appt use‐case description, and it is connected to the use case in the use‐case diagram (see Figure 4‐21).

Sixth, in some organizations, we should also include the stakeholders listed in the use‐case description as actors in the use‐case diagram. For example, there could have been an association between the Doctor actor and the Make Old Patient Appt use case (see Figures 4‐13 and 4‐21). However, in this case it was decided not to include this association because the Doctor never participates in the Make Old Patient Appt use case.28

Seventh, all other relationships listed in a use‐case description (include, extend, and generalization) must be portrayed on a use‐case diagram. For example, in Figure 4‐13, there is an extend relationship listed with the Update Patient Information use case, and in Figure 4‐21, we see that it appears on the diagram between the two use cases.

Finally, there are many diagram‐specific requirements that must be enforced. For example, in an activity diagram a decision node can be connected to activity or action nodes only with a control flow, and for every decision node there should be a matching merge node. Every type of node and flow has different restrictions. However, the complete restrictions for all the UML diagrams are beyond the scope of this text.29
