# Backup

Full, differential and incremental backups are well-known and tend to be the primary approaches used when backing up an organization’s valuable data. They are described as follows:

- Full: As the name implies, full backups will back up every object each time they are run. These types of backups sound perfect. All your data is backed up and gives you the assurance that you can recover from catastrophe. The drawbacks of full backups are that they take a longer period of time to complete, take up larger amounts of storage space on your network, and can be cumbersome to manage. Full backups are almost always part of any good backup strategy and planning.
- Incremental: Incremental backups execute on data only if it has changed since the last backup conducted (of any type–full, differential, synthetic full, incremental-forever, etc.). It accomplishes this by comparing the files against their time stamp. If there is a difference, the file is backed up, and if there is not, it is skipped. The benefits associated with this backup scheme are that it takes up far less storage space than a full backup and executes much faster. They should be used in conjunction with full backups. To restore an incremental backup, you must first start with the full backup taken initially.
- Differential: Very similar to incremental backups, differential backups will initially copy all data being backed up, and then with each subsequent backup, will only back up data that is different since the last backup executed. For a differential backup, a full backup must be initially performed. It backs up more data than an incremental, but less than a full backup. You’ve probably already guessed that because more is backed up, the storage requirements also exceed incremental, but fall short of a full backup.
