# SDLC & Software Security

Each phase of the software development life cycle allows for applications of software assurance best practices. One of the most important practices to employ is education about security. Before threats can be addressed, the entire development team should be made aware of the types and causes of these threats. Developers should understand the security issues of the client and build successful security into the application. Training can also include coding techniques for general security issues that can be applied regardless of the type of software developed.

The definition of requirements is a key aspect of successful projects, and the security requirements are the foundation of good security in an application. Security requirements should encompass code and also the design and infrastructure used to support the application. Security requirements will also address how the development resources are controlled and protected and how the development team is monitored. Security requirements may also mandate third-party security reviews and other checks on the security of the code and the development environment.

The design phase of software development plays a critical role in the final security of the application. The implementation team is charged with implementing the design, so if the design is ultimately insecure, the resulting application will be insecure. The designers must understand the potential vulnerabilities and include the designs necessary to protect against these threats. If encryption is required to protect the data in an application, but the design team creates a poor encryption technique, then the application is ultimately vulnerable. The secure design of applications may require the assistance of outside experts, and a significant amount of research is often required.

Secure programming practices are important when the implementation team begins coding. The team should be using the secure coding methods that they learned when they received their security education prior to the project start. There should be qualified individuals on the team who are capable of reviewing the software to make sure there are no security vulnerabilities. Automated tools, such as function extractors, can also be used to assist in review of code. The coding practices should support good security, but the code must also be handled in a secure fashion. Source control and version management must be secure, and there should be good tracking mechanisms in place so that changes will be tracked and monitored. Only authorized personnel should be given access to code. No changes should be made to code without multiple levels of review and approval.

Testing is the phase in which the strength of the security that was built into the application is determined. The test team must understand how software security is breached and must be prepared to attack the software, data, and systems in the same way that malicious attackers would attempt to damage or access the application. Specialized tools help testers identify potential security problems, and it is common to use outside security testing resources in this phase.

After the application is released, the developers must be ready to respond to any security issues that may arise. A good support system is a good security best practice for an organization. This team must be able to respond to security violations quickly to protect the customer’s resources. A system should be in place to quickly develop and deploy patches to the application to remove or reduce the security threat.
