# Cost Benefit Analysis

A cost benefit analysis is a technique for analyzing business decisions. The positive aspects of a business-related action are summed, and then the costs associated with these actions are subtracted to see if the action was beneficial or not. The Cost Benefit Analysis Method (CBAM) is an architecture-centric software process for analyzing the costs, benefits, and schedule implications of decisions. It also allows assessment of the indecision surrounding judgments of costs and benefits, thereby providing a basis for educated decision making about architectural design and upgrade.

It’s important that everything is assigned a dollar value in a CBA. Anticipated benefits should be expressed in monetary values. Examples of this include reduced operating costs or increased earning. For some benefits, the monetary value must be approximate; these might include things such as employee morale or increased productivity. Benefits and costs should be expressed in monetary terms whenever possible to facilitate the assessment of a project’s net value.

The best way to explain a CBA is through examining a hypothetical situation for an organization. For example, ABC Information Technology is trying to decide if it should upgrade its malicious software solution. Before the organization can make an informed decision, it must gather all of the positive aspects of each project and assign a monetary value. In addition, the negative aspects of each project also must be assigned a monetary value. In this scenario, the unconventional concept of benefit based on risk avoided can be used rather than increased productivity. In this scenario, there is a security issue in the organization of all workstations not having malware protection installed. If there were to be a security breach, the cost to the organization is $100,000 plus a huge hit to the company’s reputation and possible fines from the government. The cost to protect the organization with an excellent malware protection is $25,000. So, in this example, it should be obvious that the best decision based on the CBA would be the purchase of the malware protection. Even more, the relevant criterion in evaluating IT solutions is not simply the cost of implementation but how much benefit each additional dollar of investment brings, in the form of reduced expected loss or risk.

*A cost-benefit analysis is a fast, simplified technique that an organization can use for non-critical financial decisions. When decisions involve large sums of money or are mission-critical, a different approach may be more suitable. These are internal rates of return and net present values.*
